Title: Colophon
Date: May 22, 2013
Tags: MultiMarkdown, Movable Type, web, server, typography, css

# Overview #

This site is now created solely with [MultiMarkdown](/multimarkdown/). The
plain text source files, e.g. [here](/multimarkdown/index.txt), are processed
with MultiMarkdown into XHTML files. The XHTML files use a few templates and
[Server Side Includes](http://httpd.apache.org/docs/1.3/howto/ssi.html) to
create a consistent layout and to automatically link to other pages in various
subdirectories. I use some cgi scripts to handle authentication via
[OpenID](http://openid.net/) Everything is uploaded to my server via
[git](http://git-scm.com/).

Previously, I have used [Oddmuse](http://www.oddmuse.org/) and subsequently
[Movable Type](http://www.movabletype.org/) to generate this site. I finally
realized that each of those programs was essentially just putting a wrapper
around my MultiMarkdown content which was the core of each page. I describe a
bit more how I transitioned from other software
[here](/2009/09/multimarkdown_as_cms).

# MultiMarkdown #

The content of this site is written using the [MultiMarkdown](/multimarkdown/)
syntax, and then converted to XHTML. I also use
[SmartyPants](http://daringfireball.net/projects/smartypants/) to simplify
making the content "typographically correct." A custom
[XSLT](http://www.w3schools.com/xsl/) file modifies the plain XHTML output
from MultiMarkdown to include a few templates and scripts to allow for proper
page formatting (e.g. the sidebar, header, and footer).


# Hosting #

Hosted by [NearlyFreeSpeech.NET](https://www.nearlyfreespeech.net/). They
offer a unique pricing plan based purely on the actual storage space and
bandwidth used, with no monthly fees.

However, I also make use of Amazon's [S3](http://aws.amazon.com/s3/) service
for hosting larger files. The bandwidth and storage costs are *much* lower,
but the performance is supposedly not quite good enough to act as your sole
web server (though that is actually possible for static pages...) Basically,
my web site (which has both static and dynamic pages) will be hosted with
NFSN, while images and files for download will be hosted at S3.

This does mean that my bandwidth and storage is no longer free (or more
precisely, paid for), but the added flexibility should be worth it. (Donations
to keep things running are certainly welcome!)

# Apache #

NearlyFreeSpeech.NET uses Apache as their server software. I have modified my
.htaccess file to send the proper Mime-type to each browser, since certain
popular but crappy browsers still have trouble keeping up with last generation
web standards (*cough* IE *cough*). With thanks to
[bitworking](http://bitworking.org/news/134/Content-Negotiation-Considered-Harmful-Again).

	RewriteCond %{HTTP_ACCEPT} application/xhtml\+xml
	RewriteCond %{HTTP_ACCEPT} !application/xhtml\+xml\s*;\s*q=0\.?0*(\s|,|$)
	RewriteCond %{REQUEST_URI} \.html$
	RewriteRule .* - [T=application/xhtml+xml;charset=UTF-8]
	RewriteCond %{HTTP_ACCEPT} application/xhtml\+xml
	RewriteCond %{HTTP_ACCEPT} !application/xhtml\+xml\s*;\s*q=0\.?0*(\s|,|$)
	RewriteCond %{REQUEST_URI} !\.
	RewriteRule .* - [T=application/xhtml+xml;charset=UTF-8]

If you are unfortunate enough to have to use such a browser, recognize that
this site will not look as it is supposed to....

# Email #

Email is provided by [Google Apps](http://www.google.com/a/). For more
information on how to use Google's email services, see
[Using Gmail and Postfix](/2008/08/using_gmail_and_postfix).

# Typography #

I've tried to apply some principles of well thought out typography to this
site, using the following references:

* [Five simple steps to better typography](http://www.markboulton.co.uk/journal/comments/five_simple_steps_to_better_typography)

* [Web Typography Sucks](http://webtypography.net/sxsw2007/)

* To see examples of this site's default typographical styles, please see the [Typography page](../category/Typography/).

It really does make a difference!

# CSS #

The CSS for this site is broken into separate files in order to better
differentiate the different components. One file applies the typography
techniques mentioned above; one applies colors; one applies the decorations
and branding; one manages the overall page layout; one applies code to base
the appearance of tables on that produced by the
[booktabs](http://www.ctan.org/tex-archive/macros/latex/contrib/booktabs/)
package for LaTeX.

Of course, this is all moot if you are using IE to view this site. In that
case, I take no responsibility for the way things look on your screen. Treat
yourself: use a [real browser](http://www.mozilla.com/firefox/)....

# Legal Info #

The content of this web site, unless otherwise specified, is licensed under a
[Creative Commons License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/us/)
by Fletcher T. Penney.

Most of my software is released under the [GNU General Public License](http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/gpl.html). See the individual files for
more information.
